---
title: API
description: The API allows you to easily access all the data stored in PopIt from your code or other websites.
layout: default
---

The API allows you to easily access and edit all the data stored in PopIt from your code or other websites.

## Basics

The API is based on [REST](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer).


### API Versions

There is a version string in the API url. This will be updated if the API undergoes significant changes that breaks backwards compatibility. Old APIs will be supported for a bit, but will eventually be deprecated. Hopefully version changes will be very rare.

**NOTE**: until PopIt is considered stable the API will change and the 'v1' version will break. Please contact us if you need to know which parts of the API are stable.

These versions are currently supported:

  * **v0.1** - this is the recommended version
  * **v1** - not recommended, will be deprecated when the admin interface has been changed to use `v0.1`.

### result / results

When you make a query the returned data will always be a hash. There will be a result or results key that contains the data you've requested.


### meta

When you make requests to the API you'll often get little 'meta' blocks in the results. These blocks are added to the data by the API to provide additional information that may be helpful. For example it might contain links to the API endpoint for a result in a search, or a link to the web page where you can edit the data.

The meta blocks are also used to provide next and previous links in list results (not implemented yet).


### errors

If something goes wrong there will be an 'error' or 'errors' key that will explain the error. Often an HTTP error code will also be used (eg '404' if a result cannot be found).


### ObjectIds and slugs

Objects in PopIt are always identified in the API by their ObjectId - which is generated by the database and is a 24 character hex string.

    /api/v0.1/person/4f99219333fa2efc68000006

ObjectIds will never change.


### Searching

Currently only simple searching implemented - you can search by ObjectIds and by case-insensitive string matching. Examples:

    /api/v0.1/person?name=joe
    /api/v0.1/position?person=4f99219333fa2efc68000006

Better searching (exact matches, gte, etc) is on the TODO list.


### JSONP

Read (GET) requests to the API can have an optional `callback` parameter which will cause [JSONP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSONP) to be returned. This might be useful if querying the API from a browser  on another website.
